# Licence

<! --- SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0  -- >

## Introduction

The aim of the Online engine is to provide personalized recommendations for the researchers of entities from the EOSC Marketplace, Knowledge Hub, and OpenAIRE Research Graph. Its generate recommendations for EOSC resources such as OARG `publications`, `datasets`, `software`, `other research products` and `trainings materials`.
It consists of a collection of machine learning algorithms performing `candidate generation`, as well as `scoring` and `re-ranking` of initially selected scientific resources.

This module also can sort a subset of resources (e.g. selected on the basis of filters or queries), provided as a list of candidates by the Search Service. Candidates can also be generated by the internal candidate generator module that produces a subset of all available resources using the information stored in the internal user's profile. In both cases, proposed candidates are processed by scoring and re-ranking components.

The main assumption for the Online engine module is the integration with internal databases and utilization of precomputed representations of EOSC users and resources. They are stored in the form of set of features and they allow you to get recommendations in a short period of time.

The main functionalities of the module:
* Creating personalized recommendations for logged-in and anonymous users based on views, orders and other similar users.
* Suggesting resources based on their popularity among users.
* Supporting smart search by sorting previously selected resources in terms of relevance or popularity.
* Providing lists of recommendations along with their corresponding explanations.
* Provides suggestions for similar resources.

The application is built as a microservice with a REST API. For more details, see [README.md](../README.md).

The main module that sends request to Online engine is [RS Facade](https://git.man.poznan.pl/stash/projects/EOSC-RS/repos/rs-facade)

## Possible extensions

In order to include more data types supported by this module, it is necessary:
  * load data containing the new type into databases
  * extend the definition of ResourceType, 
  * extend the informations of resource type mapping in databases and NNFinder conectors and candidate generator.

In order to change the scoring model, its [definition](../online_app/models/) and [model](../online_app/model_registry/) must be changed.


  